.TH PRETTY-APT-LOG 1 2024 PRETTY-APT-LOG\ 0.1.1

.SH NAME
pretty-apt-log \- view APT logs in an easy-to-read format

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY
\fBpretty-apt-log\fR [<options>] [<log> ...]
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpretty-apt-log\fR allows the user to quickly view APT package manager's logs in an easy-to-read format. Each entry includes a date/time range showing the start and end time of the installation, and the command that was run.

\fBpretty-apt-log\fR requires `bat` to be installed to colorize the output. If `bat` is not installed, the output will not be colorized.

If no <log> file is passed as an argument, all the available logs in `/var/log/apt` are concatenated together, and displayed in the output. This includes the `history.log` file, and the numbered `history.log.<number>.gz` archive files.

Otherwise, both `.gz` files and plain text log files can be passed as arguments to \fBpretty-apt-log\fR. In that case, only the information from those files, concatenated together, is displayed.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B -i, --os-installer
Show entries of installs that were done by the OS installer.

.TP
.B -I, --no-os-installer
Do not show entries of installs that were done by the OS installer. This is the default.

.TP
.B -u, --user
Show username of the user who requested the install.

.TP
.B -U, --no-user
Do not show username of the user who requested the install. This is the default.

.TP
.B -n, --user-uid
Show UID of the user next to the username.

.TP
.B -N, --user-no-uid
Do not show UID of the user next to the username. This is the default.

.TP
.B -d, --details
Show a detailed report about the packages that were installed during each session.

.TP
.B -D, --no-details
Do not show a detailed report about the packages that were installed during each session. This is the default.

.TP
.B -a, --details-current-architecture
Always show a full name of the package in the detailed report, including the architecture \- even if the package's architecture matches the current machine architecture. Current machine architecture can be found out by running `dpkg --print-architecture`.

.TP
.B -A, --details-no-current-architecture
Do not show the architecture in the name of a package in the detailed report if the architecture matches the current machine architecture. This is the default.

.TP
.B -f, --date-format\fR=<value>
Date format string that changes how date/time is displayed in the output. This is the same as the \fIFORMAT\fR string of the `date` command. See \fBdate\fR(1) for more details.

The default value is `%Y/%m/%d %H:%M:%S`.

.TP
.B -z, --date-timezone\fR=<value>
Change the timezone in which date/time is displayed in the output.

The default value is current system timezone (the output of `date +%Z`).

.TP
.B -b, --bat-theme\fR=<value>
Change the bat theme that is used to colorize the output. The default value is `OneHalfDark`.

If this value is set to an empty string, bat's currently configured theme will be used.

See `bat --list-themes` for a list of available themes. Note that on Debian, bat's binary is called `batcat` instead of `bat`.

.TP
.B -p, --pager\fR[=<value>]
Use a pager to display the output.

<value> can be \fIalways\fR, \fIauto\fR, or \fInever\fR. No specified <value> is equivalent to \fIalways\fR. \fInever\fR is equivalent to \fB--no-pager\fR, which is also the default.

.TP
.B -P, --no-pager
Do not use a pager to display the output. This is the default.

.TP
.B -e, --pager-scroll-to-end
Scroll to the end of the output when opening a pager.

.TP
.B -E, --no-pager-scroll-to-end
Do not scroll to the end of the output when opening a pager. This is the default.

.TP
.B -c, --color
Colorize the output. This is the default if bat is installed.

.TP
.B -C, --no-color
Disable colorization of the output. If bat is not installed, this is the default.

.TP
.B -h, --help
Print help.

.TP
.B -V, --version
Print version information.

.SH FILES

A configuration file can be used to set default options.

The configuration file's location is \fI$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/pretty-apt-log/config.bash\fR. If \fIXDG_CONFIG_HOME\fR is not set, it defaults to \fI~/.config\fR.

.SH AUTHOR

Alex Rogers <https://github.com/linguisticmind>

.SH HOMEPAGE

<https://github.com/linguisticmind/pretty-apt-log>

.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright © 2023 Alex Rogers. License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.

This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
